My name is Alexey Grigorev, and I apply to the Business Intelligence and Analytics Master's program for the fundamental study of Computer Science and related aspects such as Advanced Databases, Data Mining and Web Mining. I also apply to the Westminster International Scholarship, as I am fully qualified for the program, and with my strong academic and professional background I am a good match for the scholarship. Not only is the curriculum attractive for me, but the general idea of studying in the University of Westminster is also appealing.


Academic background

In 2006 I entered Far Eastern State Academy for Humanities and Social Studies (now Priamurian State University) in the city of Birobidzan, Russia, to study computer science and in 2010 I graduated with honors and received bachelor's degree. The courses I took were chiefly devoted to database design for enterprises.

Apart from studies, I was actively engaged in many extracurricular activities: I spoke at several conferences, annually was a part of PSU's team in ACM ICPC, participated at several mathematical contexts. My achievements in studying and extracurricular activities did not go unnoticed and as a recognition I received a prestigious governmental award for talented youth. 


Professional background

Upon graduation I decided to take a break from studying, and I moved to Nizhniy Novgorod where I worked for several companies as a software developer. The first company was developing a system for robotizing e-commerce warehouses, and in the second one we were responsible for creating a system for selling ringback tones. Both companies needed to process large volumes of data efficiently, quickly adapting to the needs of customers, whether it be putting complimentary goods on the same rack or suggesting a tone which a customer is likely to buy. Now I am working for an investment bank, and I am able to see that financial institutions have to deal with large volume of information, every day processing billions and billions of trades. Therefore, data analysis is crucial, and now I realize that I want to concentrate further on this subject.

I do my best not to be limited only by the scope of work, and I have actively contributed to open source, and my most significant contribution was playing a team lead role in ``jtalks.org'' project. Its main goal was to enhance the underlying engine for the web-site of Russian-speaking Java community, but the more people joined the project, the more ideas appeared, and I was delighted to be at the center of this development. Participation in open source is rewarding: it has given me connections, skills in building enterprise-level applications from scratch and experience in recruiting and mentoring.

What is more, I understand the value of sharing knowledge and keep a professional blog where I post all my thoughts around IT, be it a review of a new technology, summary of a book or a technical article. It started as a place where I could keep notes just for myself, but eventually it evolved into a web site, every day visited by around a hundred of people. Sometimes I receive requests for help from my visitors, and for me it means that they have confidence in my experience and knowledge.


Study objectives

Trough my working experience I have gained a significant insight into the needs of business. From my point of view, in the not too distant future data scientists -- programmers with data mining and statistics skills -- will be in increasingly high demand. The main reason for this is that over the last decades enterprises have accumulated prodigious amounts of information, and each year the number of data doubles. Hence, such professionals will be needed desperately to put this data in order.

I am particularly eager to become a data scientist, and in the future I would like to focus on the following areas: data mining, data warehousing and statistics. While I am constantly learning and self-improving, it is not enough, and I feel a certain lack of skills. For that reason, in order to be successful in these fields, a good university education is needed, and such a remarkable master program will definitely help me reach my goals. Therefore, I am highly motivated to take the courses the program provides, because the curriculum fits my educational objectives perfectly. 

Additionally, I am deeply interested in cultural exchange: traditions, art, and local cuisine really appeal to me, and with this program, I will be able to immerse myself in the English culture. 

Upon finishing the program I plan to pursue PhD and combine professional and teaching activities. The qualification obtained through the studies will allow me to easily enroll in any doctoral program, and I am specifically interested in researches conducted by the School for Information and Knowledge Systems in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. Teaching is also important for me, because besides building my career I am enthusiastic about sharing my experience and knowledge with others.

To summarize, with my strong academic background, relevant working experience and a constant desire for acquiring knowledge, I am confident that I am qualified and able to perform well in this program.

Thank you very much for considering my application. I am looking forward to your positive response.