Intro

My name is Alexey Grigorev, I am 23 years old. Currently I am employed by a leading Russian IT company. I graduated in December 2010 from Priamurian State University after Shalom Aleichem, Russia, with bachelor degree in technology (?) with honors. I would like to apply for the Master's Degree in Erasmus Mundus program (NAME). 

--
My aim is to work in an international field related to chemistry. Therefore, I would like to gain deeper principles and also practical skills to start and manage innovative and appropriate projects, and hope someday I can help my country to improve in this field more efficiently.


Academic background

In 2006 I decided to enter Far Easter State Academy for Humanities and Social Studies (afterwards renamed to Priamurian State University) in the city of Birobidzan, Russia, to study computer science and in 2010 I graduated with honors and received bachelor's degree. The courses I took were chiefly devoted to database design for small enterprises: data management, knowledge representation in IT systems, corporate IT systems and so on. My final graduation thesis was about creation of IT automated information system for enterprise "Sterkh", Birobidzhan. However, disciplines of the most interest for me were mathematical analysis, probability and statistics, and statical analysis of time series.

Moreover, English is the international language of diplomacy, business, science, technology, banking, computing, medicine, aviation, UN & NATO armed forces, engineering, tourism, Hollywood films and arguably the best pop and rock music in the world. Since the beginning of my studies I realized the importance of English and decided to enroll in 
I like English language and I have always realized its importance in nowadays world. In 2006 I enrolled in extensive training ... And now I have a diploma which allows me to teach English. Simultaneously, I was ... another degree in English and as a result I can be an English teacher

Apart from studies, I was actively engaged in many extracurricular activities. My main research interests during studies were software engineering, resulted in Von Neumann machine model shown in "Programmer 2009" conference; image processing, resulted in a paper about copyright protection and watermarking shown in "Programmer 2010" conference; and finally applied statistics, with work around cluster analysis and time series procession shown in 57th Scientific Collegiate Conference in Far Eastern State University of Social Studies.

From 2007 to 2010 I annually was a part of PGU's team in Far Eastern Sub-regional Quarter Finals of Northeastern European Regional Collegiate Programming Contest held by ACM. In 2007 and 2008 I participated in individual mathematical contests, where in 2008 showed the best result amongst all PGU participants. Finally, In 2010 I competed in individual nation-wide programing contest where I ranked 4th among participants form Far East region of Russia.

My accomplishments did not go unnoticed and as a recognition in the end of 2009 I received a prestigious governmental award for my achievements in studying and extracurricular activities. However, among all the tournaments I have partaken in the most outstanding was "the best graduate" contest in my Alma Mater, between all PGU's graduates from all faculties - highly competent and competitive rivals, all with high chances of winning. But I managed to win by a narrow margin.


Professional background

Theory without practice costs little. While a student, I worked as a junior programmer in Mathematical Simulation laboratory at my university, where I worked with ... image processing, cluster analysis. And as a part of my graduation thesis, I worked in Sterkh as a programmer where I designed a system for ... to automatize some of the enterprise workflows. 

Upon graduation I decided to take a break from studying. There were two reasons for this: firstly, I wanted to acquire more practical knowledge, and secondly, I was driven by desire to find out what particular field is more interesting for me as well as more appealing for business. I moved to Nizhniy Novgorod where I worked in several companies as a software developer. The first company was developing a system of robotizing e-commerce storages, and in the second one we in charge of creating a system for selling ringback tones (melodies you hear in the background when you are calling to a mobile phone). The companies are quite different, but there was something that they have in common. Namely, they both need to process a large volume of data efficiently, quickly adapting to customers' needs, be it putting complimentary goods on the same rack or suggesting a tone which a customer is likely to buy.

Now I am working in Poland at an investment bank. Trades from exchanges across the globe have to be booked for commission calculation. Financial institutions have to deal with prodigious amounts of data, every day processing billion and billion of trades. It has once again proved that data analysis is crucial.

Thus, it can be said I have gained a significant insight into the needs of business. From my point of view, in the foreseeable future data scientists - programmers with statistics skills - will be in increasingly high demand. Enterprises have gained prodigious amounts of information over the last decades and each year the number of data is increased twofold. Hence, data scientists are needed desperately to put this data in order. 

I do my best to be not limited only by the scope of work and I am always looking forward to absorb new knowledge. It means attending training, communities at work (architect community, agile community), local communities (like Nizhniy Novgorod java community). At the moment I am undergoing a training about basics of data warehousing. 

Besides, I have actively contributed to open source projects. For example, I played a team lead role in open source project jtalks.org, project for Russian-speaking java community. Open source can give you much: name, connections, experience in building enterprise-level application from scratch. Plus understanding of process, collaboration, experience in mentoring, etc. 

I understand the value sharing knowledge and keep a professional blog where I post all my thoughts around IT, be it a review of a new technology, worked over summaries of books and technical articles, implementation of algorithms and so on. It started as a place where I could keep notes just for myself but eventually it evolved into a web site which around a hundred of people visit every day.

The main programming language I use in my every day work is Java. However, I am not restricted only to it and actively use() other languages such as Python. 

I like the technologies I use, but I realize that it is important not to be bound to a certain technology, therefore I constantly broaden my ming by learning new technology, language or approach. Recently I have had quite a lot of interested in functional programming, ... ! especially Scheme, as a language of learning functional programming paradigm.  Different problems could be solver easily using other means. From different angles. Wisely and professionally use a proper instrument for a proper task.

To summarize,
So in future I would like to concentrate on the following areas: data warehousing, big data, data mining, cloud computing and multi-agent environment, plus functional programming.


My dream job would be a job of programmer with high inclination towards statistics and data analysis. With challenging tasks leaving enough information to write an article or make a presentation on a conference - to share the knowledge. And the study will contribute immensely to this. 



Study objectives

Such colossal values of data cannot be processed by a single computer, and therefore computer clusters should be employed

Companies like Google, Yandex, EMC, Facebook etc are becoming highly interested to hire programmers with this kind of experience. Working as a regular java developer I realize that I lack certain skills, both theoretical and applied. While I am constantly self-improving and learning, it is not enough - more solid education background is needed. There is no such place but University to - the best environment for learning. University provides people with the best possible environments for studying, if chosen correctly. 


Thus, In have decided to pursue a Master of Science degree in (UNIVERSITY NAME) to strengthen my knowledge, with emphasize on these areas. 
I am extremely interested in the courses (----NAME-----) provides 

versatile technology stack 
good knowledge of application portfolio within IT mainstream. Ability to make architectural decisions 
propagation of knowledge - conferences, articles.
active listening
to accommodate all sides' needs 


It will not only strengthen my knowledge in the field, but also help me fulfill ...  


Upon finishing the program I plan to pursue PhD and combine professional and teaching activities 
I always have strong desire to share my experience.

Language and cultural exchange. I am living in Poland and highly enjoying learning new Polish culture, traditions and language. ALthought it similar to Russian to a certain extent, there are a lot of interesting things to learn about.
With this program, opportunity to learn (languages list) 
ALready good background plus constant crave for knowledge. 
I have a desire to do my post-master project on ... 

With my strong academic background and relevant working experience, I am confident that I am qualified and able to perform well in this program. I also believe that I can make a significant contribution to this program. 

Thank you very much for considering my application. I am looking forward to your positive response. 
...