
Please state in what capacity you know the applicant
as a teacher and as a dean, since 2006
 

1. In your opinion, how would a Swedish Institute scholarship be valuable for the professional and academic development of the applicant?

Through learning Alexey showed himself as an active, serious and conscientious student. Being a high performer, he was among the upper 5% of his group, and he was studying with interest and awareness of necessity of solid knowledge. The regular curriculum problems were easy for him, and he was always willing to do extra. Alexey proved to have an inclination towards scientific and research work. 

That is why I firmly believe that it will be highly valuable for Alexey to participate in the program, and with the scholarship he will be able to take the most out of his potential, making an excellent career in the Business Intelligence field.


2. Please evaluate the applicant's leadership capacity and potential to contribute to development of international cooperation.

As a person, Alexey showed good communication skills. He understands the value of collaboration, listens actively, and always asks clarifying questions. Also, he provides a well-reasoned position, effectively conveys ideas in a structured way, actively joins discussions, and able to work out mutually agreeable solutions. He is open-minded, and that lets him easily get along with both students and teachers. These qualities make him a natural leader.

Alexey is open to multicultural exchange. While participating in contests in China, he enthusiastically absorbed Chinese culture, visited all possible sights and tried to learn a little bit of Chinese. In 2009 and 2010 he participated in Work and Travel program, and visited the USA to work and learn English there. On his return, he was full of impressions and eagerly shared all his experiences with his peers. 

Thus, he has an enormous potential to contribute to any cooperation, and especially to international, with his experience in multicultural interaction and open-mindedness.


3. Please describe in what way your organization / university / enterprise would benefit if the applicant was granted a Swedish Institute scholarship (if applicable).

While a student, Alexey demonstrated eagerness to propagate knowledge. When his classmates had problems to understand something, he did his best to explain difficult part from different angles. What is more, he with his friends tried to organize an algorithm study group for preparation to programming contests in our faculty. 

Upon graduation he may return and work as a PhD student and as a teacher at PGU, and advance the science. Since we constantly experience a shortage of skilled people, and Alexey openly expresses willingness and motivation to share knowledge, our university would benefit substantially.


4. Additional remarks (optional)


Alexey was a student with great capabilities, with his attitude towards acquiring new knowledge, skills and competences. And I think he will amply fulfill all his potential if he participates in this program and receives the scholarship.

